--> HP48 G/GX primarily; of some use for S/SX also.

HP48FONTS - A collection of TrueType fonts for HP48 Developers.
Fonts created by Ted J. Kerber of D'Zign, using Fontographer by
Altsys.  Beta-tested by Jim Donnelly. This little documentation file
written by Joe Horn.

These fonts were originally intended to be a commercial product,
complete with printed documentation including copious illustrations.
Ted could not find a dealer interested in selling it, so he wrote me a
letter including the following:

    I am still convinced that developers of software for the HP48 can
    get some use out of these fonts for writing their documentation
    and instruction sheets.  Feel free to include the fonts on one of
    your Goodies Disks.  You can also copy as much (or as little) of
    the manual as you like, and consider this letter to also be a
    copyright release for the whole batch.

Ted included a copy of the printed documentation; it's beautiful!
Graphics, font tables, examples, the whole nine yards.  Since I cannot
possibly convert it to ASCII, he and D'Zign kindly agreed to make it
available for free.  For your copy of the printed documentation, send
a 9x12-inch envelope, with $0.78 return postage attached, to:

        Ted J. Kerber
        c/o D'Zign
        P.O. Box 430
        Tollhouse, CA 93667
     
This offer good only to United States addresses.  Non-USA residents
can obtain the documentation by convincing one of their friends in
the USA to get it for them.  D'Zign will pay for the photocopying.

Disclaimer:  This software is not supported.  This material is
transferred free of charge, as is.  D'Zign makes no warranty,
expressed or implied as to its performance. D'Zign specifically
disclaims the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for
any particular purpose. D'Zign shall not be liable for any direct,
indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages, whether based
on contract, tort, or any other legal theory. D'Zign specifically will
not offer any support concerning this material and grants no
exclusivity for its use. D'Zign specifically does not offer this
material as a product and does not commit to make this material
available in the future as such.


+-----------+
| THE FONTS |
+-----------+

INSTALLATION: Install as you would any TrueType font. The character
map is logically laid out, but if you want it in tabular form you may
either obtain the complete printed documentation (see above) or print
it out yourself using any common TrueType utility (I use TrueType for
DOS by MicroLogic).

HP48GOS1.TTF - HP48 character set, size 1 (small, status-area size)
HP48GOS2.TTF - HP48 character set, size 2 (medium, DISP size)
HP48GOS3.TTF - HP48 character set, size 3 (large, stack & edit size)

HPPRNTR.TTF - HP 82240B Thermal Infrared Printer font (not 82240A)

HP48MENU.TTF - Special font that allows you to create text that looks
               exactly like HP48 menus, even including directory
               "tabs", any special character, etc.  Software that runs
               on the HP48 to help use this font is included (see
               below) for automatically centering text in the menu and
               making it the correct width, just like the HP48 does.

HP48KEYS.TTF - Each character of this font is a mini-graphic that
               looks exactly like a key on the HP48G keyboard (not
               HP48S) including shifted keys. All the white-on-black
               keys are also available as black-on-white for
               applications in which that would be more legible.
               Example: the "J" character is a white-on-black VAR key,
               but "j" is a black-on-white VAR key.

HP48AKEY.TTF - Same as HP48KEYS but the alphabet keys include the
               letter at the bottom right corner (just as it appears
               on the HP48 keyboard), so for example "J" is a VAR key
               with a tiny J attached.  This font is intended for the
               creation of instruction sheets to be used by people who
               are not familiar with the HP48.


+--------------+
| THE SOFTWARE |
+--------------+

MENUHP - Automates the use of the HP48MENU font for creation of text
         that looks exactly like HP48 menus.

INSTALLATION: Transfer MENUHP to your HP48. Recall it to the stack
(it's Library 916), then purge MENUHP, then type a port number (0 if
you don't have any RAM cards installed; GX owners may use port 2 or
higher) and press STO. Turn the HP48 off then back on. Now type
exactly as you see here:
                                instl

Be sure to use lower-case letters, and press ENTER.  This will create
a directory called 'mENu' containing two programs: 'norm' and 'misc'.
Use the 'norm' program for creating normal menus containing only
letters and/or numbers (no special alpha characters).  Use 'misc' for
creating menus with miscellaneous alpha characters and/or custom
characters.  These two programs work very differently from each other,
so be sure to read their instructions.

NOTE: You can create "directory menus" (with the little tab on top) by
pressing shift-0 *immediately before* the menu characters. Depending
on your software, it may not display correctly, but it will print
correctly.

+--------+
| 'norm' |
+--------+

Run 'norm'.  At the "Input menu key Info" prompt, type the
character(s) which you wish to be in the menu, and press ENTER.
Whatever the screen says, do that on your computer, pressing the CONT
softkey to go to each successive screen, until CONT no longer appears.

For example, to create a menu that says HI, run 'norm', key in HI and
press ENTER.  The HP48 says that you should type shift-3 on your
computer, followed immediately by a 5. Press CONT on your HP48, and it
now says that you should type HI on your computer, followed by
shift-7, and that's all there is to it!

As mentioned above, you can make a "HI directory menu" by pressing
shift-0 *first*, immediately before the keys that 'norm' said to
press.

Note: If you do what 'norm' says to do, but are not obtaining correct
results, it is probable that you are using characters that are not in
the HP48MENU font.  Use 'misc' instead of 'norm' for such cases.

+--------+
| 'misc' |
+--------+

The 'misc' program requires its input to be on the stack *before* you
run it; it then tells you screen-by-screen exactly what to type on
your computer.  Be patient; it takes a while to run.

For example, to create a menu that says "Sigma Plus" (symbolically),
first you must create that as a string on the HP48.  This can be done
many ways; I prefer to use the GX's CHARS character-map and press ECHO
on the sigma-character. After you have "sigma plus" on the stack, run
'misc'. It says that you should type shift-6 on your computer... then
type n d j n \ [ q [ \, and finally type shift-6.

The 'mENu' directory only takes up 297 bytes of memory, but you may
purge it any time you need that memory, because it can be created
later by just typing "instl" as described above.


+---------+
| SUPPORT |
+---------+

There isn't any.  But if you have a simple question, I'm very familiar
with the use of this package now, so I'll be happy to help you.  Send
email to:

-Joseph K. Horn-   <joehorn@mail.liberty.com> or <jkh@sc.liberty.com>
